Add sandbox to extensions API (#673)
phylum-dev/cli: docs/extensions/extension_sandboxing.md

---
title: Extension Sandboxing
category: 62c5cb137dbdad00536291a6
hidden: false
---

Phylum's CLI extensions allow developers to impose additional restrictions when
running third party applications. This can protect the system from damage when
these applications contain vulnerabilities or execute untrusted code.

## Example

The following code provides an example on how you could sandbox `cat` to only

> allow access to files in the current working directory or below it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow access to files in the current working directory or its descendants:
```
(optional)

Author: I think "descendants" might be more difficult to understand for some users than "below it". Especially because it can be interpreted as some kind of derived directory rather than a hierarchical structure.

I'm open to other suggestions, but I don't think descendants is the way to go.

```ts
import { PhylumApi } from 'phylum';

// Ensure a file path is passed as the only argument.
if (Deno.args.length !== 1) {
    console.log("USAGE: local-cat <FILE>");
    Deno.exit(123);
}

// Run `cat` in our sandboxed environment.
const output = PhylumApi.runSandboxed({
    cmd: 'cat',
    args: [Deno.args[0]],
    stdout: 'inherit',
    stderr: 'inherit',
    exceptions: {
        read: ['./'],
        write: false,
        run: false,
        net: false,
    },
});

// Propagate `cat`'s exit code.
Deno.exit(output.code);
```

When running this against a file in your local directory, it will print its

> content, otherwise , you'll see `cat` printing the following error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
content, otherwise, you'll see `cat` printing the following error:
```

more control over your sandboxing exceptions, you can pass `strict: true` to the
`exceptions`:

```ts
const output = PhylumApi.runSandboxed({
    cmd: 'cat',
    args: [Deno.args[0]],
    stdout: 'inherit',
    stderr: 'inherit',
    exceptions: {
        // Discard all default sandboxing exceptions.
        strict: true,

        // You can see the required additional exceptions here.
        // These paths might differ between operating systems and distributions.
        run: ['/usr/bin/cat', '/usr/lib'],

        // These are identical to our previous example.
        read: ['./'],
        write: false,
        net: false,
    },
});
```

## Finding Required Exceptions

It can be somewhat difficult to find out which exceptions you need to add to
allow your application to run without any errors. To simplify this a bit you can
use the [`find-permissions`] extension.

[`find-permissions`]: https://github.com/phylum-dev/cli/tree/main/extensions/find-permissions

This extension will run a script against each path in your filesystem
recursively to validate what the most granular necessary exceptions are. Once
completed, it will output all necessary paths.

> Most invokations of this extension will probably look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most invocations of this extension will probably look something like this:
```
